.TH topomodel 1 "March, 2015"

.SH NAME:
topomodel \- A Topographic Modeling Utility

.SH SYNOPSIS:
.B topomodel
[
.B OPTIONS
] -x <file> -y <file> -z <file> -m <file> -d <lines,samples> -s <file> -a <file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
topomodel is a simple tool that generates a surface slope and aspect from a set of 
x, y, z floating point binary grids and a byte input mask. The gradients are computed 
via 3rd order finite difference weighted by the reciprocal of the squared distance.
The kernel = standard 3, and the slope output is degrees from horizontal, the aspect 
output is degrees from the north, e.g. n=>0|360, e=>90, s=>180, w=>270.

For the purposes of this program a grid is defined as:
.nf

Upper left (x,y)
    +-------------+----------------------------------+
    | element 0,0 | .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  |
    +-------------+                                  |
    |     .                                          |
    |     .                                          |
    |     .                                          |
    |     .                         +----------------|
    |     .                         | element nx, ny |
    +-------------------------------+----------------+
                                              lower right (x,y)
.fi

.P
where nx = the number of columns or samples and ny = the number of rows or lines. 
The grids must run parallel to each other as no "projection" ever takes palce. 

.P
Note that this tool is used for automating the surface generation process over
an arbitrary x,y,z,m large set.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B -x, --xgrid <file> 
The floating point grid containing the x plane coordinates.

.TP
.B -y, --ygrid <file> 
The floating point grid containing the y plane coordinates.

.TP 
.B -z, --zgrid <file> 
The floating point grid containing the z plane coordinates. 
The units of this grid should be in meters.

.TP
All above grids should be IEEE float, sizeof(DATATYPE)*8 bits - see configure. Note that 
the x and y planes should not be masked, or should contain at least two cells outside the 
mask border(s) when possible. 

.TP 
.B -m, --mask <file> 
The byte mask grid containing the mask values with 0 => exclude and 1 => include.
The sizeof(char)*8

.TP 
.B -d, --dims <lines,samples> 
The dimensions of the grid. All grids should have the same dimensions

.TP 
.B -s, --slope <file> 
Output slope grid name

.TP
.B -a, --aspect <file>
Output aspect grid name

.TP 
.B -e, --earths-rad <value>
The mean radius of the spherical earth (meters). If this parameter is set then: x=>lon, 
y=lat; units should be decimal degrees.

.TP 
.B -h, --help 
The terse help message.

.TP 
.B -v, --verbose 
Run the program in verbose mode.

.SH REFERENCES
Horn, B.K.P., 1981. Hill shading and the reflectance map. Proc. Inst. Electric. Electron. Eng. 69, 14–47.

.SH BUGS:
Mail bugs to Andrew Michaelis (amac@hyperplane.org)


